.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii xplain2sql.1
.\"
.TH XPLAIN2SQL 1 "FEBRUARY 2005" Xplain "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
xplain2sql \- convert Xplain statements to many SQL dialects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xplain2sql -h
.PP
.B xplain2sql
.RI [ options ]
.I myfile.ddl
.PP
.B xplain2sql
.RI [ options ]
.I myfile.ddl
.B >
.I myfile.sql
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xplain2sql
can convert Xplain data definition and data manipulation and retrieval
statements to many SQL dialects. Output is written to stdout.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B xplain2sql
exits with 0 when the translation was successful, with 1 otherwise.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.IP -h
List all options.
.SH SQL DIALECT OPTIONS
.IP -ansi
Translate to ANSI-92 SQL.
.IP -basic
Translate to a very basic common subset of ANSI-92 SQL.
.IP -db2
Translate to the latest supported DB2 SQL dialect.
.IP -db26
Translate to the DB2 version 6 dialect.
.IP -db271
Translate to the DB2 version 7.1 dialect.
.IP -foxpro
Translate to FoxPro SQL.
.IP -interbase
Translate to the latest InterBase SQL dialect.
.IP -interbase4
Translate to the InterBase 4.0 SQL dialect.
.IP -interbase6
Translate to the InterBase 6.0 SQL dialect.
.IP -msaccess97
Translate to Microsoft Access '97 SQL.
.IP -msaccess
Translate to the latest supported Microsoft Access SQL.
.IP -msaccess2000
Translate to the Microsoft Access 2000 SQL.
.IP -msql
Translate to mini SQL.
.IP -mygsql
Translate to the latest supported MySQL dialect.
.IP -mygsql322
Translate to MySQL 3.22.
.IP -mygsql4
Translate to MySQL 4.0 ANSI mode.
.IP -oracle
Translate to the latest supported Oracle dialect.
.IP -oracle901
Translate to Oracle 9.0.1 SQL.
.IP -pgsql
Translate to the latest supported PostgreSQL dialect.
.IP -pgsql7
Translate to the PostgreSQL 7.0 dialect.
.IP -pgsql72
Translate to the PostgreSQL 7.2 dialect.
.IP -pgsql73
Translate to the PostgreSQL 7.3 dialect.
.IP -tsql
Translate to the latest supported Transact SQL (Microsoft SQL Server) dialect.
.IP -tsql65
Translate to Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 dialect.
.IP -tsql70
Translate to Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 dialect.
.SH SQL GENERATION OPTIONS
.IP -noauto
Do not generate auto-generated primary keys.
.IP -noassert
Do not generate code to support asserts.
.IP -nodatabase
Do not generate code for the database command.
.IP -noextendindex
Do not create an index on the primary key of the temporary table
created for an extend.
.IP -nosp
Do not create insert, update and delete stored procedures.
.IP -nospprefix
Do not prefix stored procedure names with 'sp_'. Stored procedures
with this prefix have a supposed performance disadvantage with
Microsoft SQL Server.
.IP -timestamp
Generate a timestamp column in each table, if the choosen SQL dialect
supports this.
.SH XML OUTPUT OPTIONS
.IP -xml
Write an XML description to xplain2sql.xml of the emitted SQL.
.SH BUGS
Not all Xplain statements are supported for all SQL dialects. See the
manual which database supports which statement and why.
.SH WEB SITE
Go to
.UR http://www.pobox.com/~berend/xplain2sql/
http://www.pobox.com/~berend/xplain2sql/
.UE
for more documentation and support.
.SH AUTHOR
Berend de Boer <berend@pobox.com>